---
uid: Abyss.Contribute.Docs.Edit.Toc
---

# Table of Contents in DocFx

DocFx uses YAML files called `toc.yml` for the table of contents.
Typically these will be small files located in various folders, which define the structure of the documentation.
Here's an example:

```yaml
- name: Introduction
  href: index.md
  items:
  - name: What is 2sxc
    href: what-is-2sxc.md
  - name: Why 2sxc
    href: why-2sxc.md
```

There are a few important things to know:

## Sections in the Table of Contents

Each entry looks a bit like this:

```yaml
- name: Introduction
  thing1: someValue
  thing2: anotherValue
  thing3: yetAnotherValue
  items:
  - name: This is a Sub Section
    href: sub-section.md
  - name: This is another Sub Section
    href: another-sub-section.md
```

As you can see, it expects a `- name` prefixed by a dash + space.
The following lines which belong to this name must be indented by 2 spaces.

> [!TIP]
> YAML uses indentation to define the structure.

The `items` key is a special key which contains a list of sub-sections.
Anything below that is again indented.
Note that we rarely use `items`, since we usually just reference other TOC files (explained below).

## Linking to Files & Websites

Typically we'll reference another file like this:

```yaml
- name: Introduction
  href: index.md
- name: What is 2sxc
  href: what-is-2sxc.md
- name: Something in a subfolder
  href: subfolder/some-file.md
- name: Something in a parent folder
  href: ../some-file.md
```

You can also create links to external websites like this:

```yaml
- name: Introduction
  href: https://www.2sxc.org
```

## Linking with Permalinks (UIDs)

For more robust linking we usually use UIDs.
In this scenario, pages have a small header like this:

```yaml
---
uid: Abyss.Contribute.Docs.Edit.Toc
---
```

The `toc.yml` can then reference it like this:

```yaml
- name: Edit Table of Contents
  uid: Abyss.Contribute.Docs.Edit.Toc
```

> [!TIP]
> This is very powerful because it allows us to move pages around without breaking links.
>
> So for extensive documentations, we always use UIDs.

## Linking to Namespaces and Objects

The same UID concept applies to namespaces and objects.
Their UIDs are automatically generated by DocFx, and match the full namespaces of the C# objects.

```yaml
- name: Namespace
  uid: ToSic.Eav.Data
- name: Class
  uid: ToSic.Eav.Data.IEntity
- name: Property
  uid: ToSic.Eav.Data.IEntity.Title
```

## Adding a few Sub-Nodes in the TOC

If you want to add a few sub-nodes to a TOC, you can

1. add them directly below `items`
1. reference another TOC file

Here's how you would add a few sub-nodes directly, which open when the `Introduction` page is visited:

```yaml
- name: Introduction
  href: index.md
  items:
  - name: What is 2sxc
    href: what-is-2sxc.md
  - name: Why 2sxc
    href: why-2sxc.md
```

You can also do the same without a real `Introduction` page,
so that the `Introduction` title is shown, but clicking it will _only unfold the menu_:

```yaml
- name: Introduction
  items:
  - name: What is 2sxc
    href: what-is-2sxc.md
  - name: Why 2sxc
    href: why-2sxc.md
```

If you want to reference another TOC file, continue below...

## Structuring - Loose vs. Tight

The TOC can be structured in a loose or tight way.

### Loose Structure

The loose way assumes that there is no real hierarchy, and that the TOC is just a list of links.
When docfx shows a page, it will find all `toc.yml` files which reference it and pick "the best" TOC to show.
In this scenario, there is no overall structure.
To explain this, let's assume we have 3 files:

The root `toc.yml` which links to various pages including the `/abyss/index.md`

```yaml
- name: Home
  href: index.md
- name: Abyss
  href: abyss/index.md
- name: Guides
  items:
  - name: Guide 1
    href: guide1.md
  - name: Guide 2
    href: guide2.md
```

The `abyss/toc.yml` which also links the `/abyss/index.md`

```yaml
- name: Abyss
  href: index.md
- name: Something in the Abyss
  href: something.md
```

The `/abyss/index.md` file not shown here.

The resulting output will do this:

1. When the user is on the root, he will see the `Home` and `Abyss` links.
    **These will not have sub-links!**  

    ```text
    - Home
    - Abyss     # note: no (+) to unfold
    + Guides    # note: (+) to unfold as it's a true hierarchy
    ```

1. When the user is on the `/abyss/index.md` page,
    the initial TOC will not be shown any more, as it's not relevant.
    The TOC will now show the `Abyss` TOC, which will show the `Abyss` link  

    ```text
    - Abyss
    - Something in the Abyss
    ```

> [!TIP]
> We call this loosely structured, because the TOCs don't really have a hierarchy.

> [!TIP]
> This is not the recommended way for most scenarios, but there are cases
> where this is a good choice.
> An example is the main menu, where we don't want to have dropdowns for every sub-item.

### Tight Structure

The tight way assumes that there is a clear hierarchy, and that the TOC is a tree.
In this scenario, the root `toc.yml` will reference all sub-TOCs, and each sub-TOC will reference its sub-TOCs.
To explain this, let's assume we have 3 files:

The root `toc.yml` which links to the `/abyss/toc.yml`

```yaml
- name: Home
  href: index.md
- name: Abyss
  href: abyss/toc.yml
```

The `abyss/toc.yml` which links the `/abyss/index.md`

```yaml
- name: Abyss
  href: index.md
- name: Something in the Abyss
  href: something.md
```

The `/abyss/index.md` file not shown here.

The resulting output will do this:

1. When the user is on the root, he will see the `Home` and `Abyss` links.
    **These will have sub-links!**  

    ```text
    - Home
    + Abyss   # note: (+) to unfold
    ```

1. When the user is on the `/abyss/index.md` page, the initial TOC will still be shown.
    The TOC will now **also** show the `Abyss` TOC, which will show the `Abyss` link.  

    ```text
    - Home
    + Abyss   # note: (+) to unfold
      - Abyss
      - Something in the Abyss
    ```


## Combine href and uid

You can combine `href` and `uid` like this:

```yaml
- name: Abyss
  uid: Abyss.Contribute.Docs.Edit.Toc
  href: abyss/toc.yml
```

This makes the word `Abyss` be a link to `Abyss.Contribute.Docs.Edit.Toc`,
and also connects the hierarchy.
So the output & behavior will be:

```text
+ Abyss   # note: (+) to unfold
```

You can now click on the `Abyss` link to go to the `Abyss.Contribute.Docs.Edit.Toc` page.
You can also click on the `+` to unfold the `Abyss` TOC.

> [!TIP]
> This is usually our recommended way to structure the TOC.
>
> It allows you to make the parent-node the "overview" page, and the child-nodes the details.

## Edge Cases

### Combine href for link and href for sub-TOC

In a rare case you may have a TOC which is both a non-UID link and a sub-TOC.

```yaml
- name: Abyss
  href: abyss/toc.yml
  topicHref: something.md
```

## See also

* [DocFx TOC documentation](https://dotnet.github.io/docfx/docs/table-of-contents.html)
* [Interesting TOC-Schema discussion](https://github.com/dotnet/docfx/issues/7736)
